Would it work to just use this as a notebook?

This document is the notebook for the website on Science-Based Targets (https://anjabrocklehurst.github.io/) and is a part of the final assigment for Course 02806 "Social data analysis and visualization" taught in DTU in spring 2025.
Students are Anja Brocklehurst, Gudrun Gudmundsdottir & Marc Hansen.

Content
1. Motivation
2. Bastic stats
3. Data analysis
4. Genre
5. Visualizations
6. Discussion
7. Contributions


1. Motivation

The motivation behind the choice of subject is an interest into corporate sustainability and to investigate the ambitions corporations have for future generations, with a special focus on Denmark.
The SBTi collects information about company's targets and making them available on their [website](https://sciencebasedtargets.org/) for transparency. The data used for this analysis has been collected from the SBTi website and is available in two formats:
A. By Companies - represents the commitments made on a company basis (in March 2025: 1.6 MB, 10890 rows with 10 columns)
B. By Targets - is a collection of targets and the details thereof (in March 2025: 2.9 MB, 17169 rows with 7 columns)

We wanted to find out what the data had to offer and then show, both the positive trajectory and a few companies that had stumbeled.
Additionally, we want to make it clear how Denmark is doing relative to global and european countries and whether or not the danish government is going to meet their targets.

2. Basic stats

Cleaning and processing of the two datasets consisted of filtering and eliminating unnecesary information and coloumns. This included removing duplicates, handling missing values, unifying spelling and formatting. 
The biggest simplification that we did for the data was to group the company sectors. This regrouping was deemed necessary to simplify visuals and keep the communication simple, without losing key information.
Due to the timing of the extraction of data being in March 2025 we limited our analysis to commitments made up to the end of 2024 to avoid incomplete reporting. In the end, the “By Companies” dataset included over 10,888 rows, and the “By Targets” dataset close to 6,882.
To get a feel for the data, we looked at things like:
- Number of companies committing per year (globally and in Denmark)
- Distribution of companies by sector
- Breakdown of target types and statuses (committed, approved, removed)
This helped ud to get a broader understanding of the datasets and prepared for the data analysis.

3. Data analysis
Before diving into deeper analysis, we started with basic exploratory data analysis. After the data cleaning and processing, making the data more readable. 
From those, we formulated hypotheses about trends in SBTi commitments, especially in Denmark, and created initial plots to explore patterns. These insights helped guide our choice of vizualisations 
and the use of more advanced exploratory data tools such polynomial regression.

We wanted to know how the Danish companies were doing in comparison to European and Global averages, which supported the birth of the chapter where these different regions were compared.
The amount of companies in Denmark is sourced from [Danmarks Statisktik](https://www.dst.dk/da/Statistik/nyheder-analyser-publ/nyt/NytHtml?cid=48768). The amount of European companies are gathered from three source: 1. [Eurostat](https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=Business_demography_statistics), 2. [Statista](https://www.statista.com/topics/10032/companies-in-russia/#topicOverview) and 3. [Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy](https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/business-population-estimates-2022/business-population-estimates-for-the-uk-and-regions-2022-statistical-release-html). Finally, the data for the amount of companies globally is gathered from [Demandsage](https://www.demandsage.com/business-statistics/).

As it was interesting not only to see the current status on the Danish companies signing up, we wanted to explore and create a prognosis on how it will look like.
To be able to do a prognosis of the Danish commitments, we looked at how the number of Danish companies joining the initiative has developed over time.
We used polynomial regression instead of linear regression for this part of the analysis. This choice was made after exploring the actual shape of the data — the number of Danish companies committing to 
SBTi targets did not follow a straight line, but rather showed signs of acceleration and possibly slowing growth in recent years. We tested both linear and polynomial models and ultimately chose a 
second-degree polynomial regression, as it gave a strong fit without becoming too speculative. Using this model, we projected how many new Danish companies are likely to commit in the coming years if the trend continues. 
The model also gave us a way to estimate how many might withdraw or have their targets "removed" (as SBTi calls it).
Interesting with the dataset is that it clearly shows how the initiative has gained momentum in Denmark, especially in recent years. It highlights how more companies are stepping up, 
but also raises the question of whether that pace will continue — and if it's enough to meet the bigger climate goals.

We also read into sources that were supportive of the information we had from out data, finding two specially relevant sources:
A. [Committment ot the science based targets initiative (SBTi) in Denmark](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5c8265907d0c91092007f8cf/t/65522a4eaed01f0ac05bd6cd/1699883605436/Rapport+SBTi.pdf)
B. [Danish Climate program on 2024](https://klimaraadet.dk/sites/default/files/node/field_files/Denmark%E2%80%99s%202035%20Climate%20Target%20.pdf)

What we learned from the dataset is that the Science-Based Targets initiative isn’t just a reporting tool — it also creates transparency around corporate climate efforts.
The data gave us insight into companies’ target ambitions, but it had some key limitations. Most notably, it lacked baseline emissions and progress updates, making it difficult to estimate actual emission reductions by the target year.
In general, the dataset would benefit from more consistent and detailed timestamps to allow for clearer and more precise analysis.

4. Genre

To describe the genre of the website we use figure 7 from [Segel, E. and Heer, J.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5613452) as a supportive tool for the visual and narrative definitions.
The genre of the website was described in the project description which was set out to be in a magazine style.
Out of the visual narratives mentioned in the figure we used a few things from all three categories. 
Meaning that we begin with an overview of the key data that gives the audience a feeling for the data as well as introducing the points that we want to highlight for the story. 
When the story gets more detailed, we use close-ups and feature distinctions to highlight the points we want to make. 
Throughout the graphs we made sure that the graphs were visually consistent but also that graphs intended to be compared, were made in the same way (familiar objects) to make the data easier to read.

The narrative structure chosen was a user direct path where story directs the user through the graphs allowing for some details through hovering, but otherwise there is a limited interactivity in the graphs. 
This method was chosen to support the story and keep the message simple and limit confusion.
The user is confronted with an executive summary that helps the user to know what they are about to read but also gives the highlights of the website.
Thereafter, there is a focus on the context and motivation behind the data analysis, introducting the subject only when the problem that it is solving has been described.
We focused on using accompanying articles that were specific, and based on official, governmental and trusted sources.
There are some repetition of discussion to make it easier for the reader to compare, and some repetitions made in the executive summary to highlight the most interesting findings.


5. Visualizations

We chose to go for a visual identidy for a clean look, with a fixed pallette and fonts. The key statistical dashboard gives a clean, clear highlight of data, the subject of the website and visuals.
The line graphs, bar graphs and pie charts were the most clear visualisation and were deemd most suitable to highlight the message.
@Marc explain the website visuals

6. Discussion

We are happy about the story we managed to tell, the references we found and the supporting data. Additionally, the visual identidy we implemented is sharp with clean, clear graphs.
We were struggling to find graphs that could reflect what we had learnt because they seemd redundant and overcomplicating the message. Another thing we would have wanted to implement was to connect the online data via API and give the user a live dashboard to play around with, and making the information on the website continously updated and relevant.

7. Contributions

Anja Brocklehurst - Made the data cleaning, visual identidy, graphs regarding the Danish SBTi commitments
Gudrun Gudmundsdottir - Made the storyline and investigation, graphs regarding the popularity of the SBTi and key statistical data dashboard for SBTi & Denmark
Marc Hansen - Made graphs related to the comparison of Denmark, Europe and global, created to website and made the content visual on the website.

------------ code below 